docs/about/author-information.md, before:


This documentation was created by:

Paul Chauvet, CISSP<br/>
Information Security Officer<br/>
State University of New York at New Paltz<br/>
chauvetp@newpaltz.edu<br/>

The author is Information Security Officer in Information Technology Services, and an adjunct instructor in Cybersecurity at SUNY New Paltz.

The author would like to thank all those who contributed to this - whether via their public documentation, forum posts on the Apereo CAS forums, or directly via email.  This includes David Curry of the New School, David Warden and Shawn Plummer of [SUNY Geneseo](https://geneseo.edu), Ken Runyon of [SUNY System Administration](https://suny.edu), Matt Adkins of [Liberty University](https://liberty.edu), David Campman of [Forsyte IT](https://forsyteit.com), and all the developers who have contributed to the [Apereo CAS](https://www.apereo.org/projects/cas) project and who contribute in the [CAS Community](https://apereo.github.io/cas/Mailing-Lists.html#cas-community-list-cas-userapereoorg).

Commit message:

At least first round of tomcat docs done

docs/about/author-information.md, after:


This documentation was created by:

Paul Chauvet, CISSP<br/>
Information Security Officer<br/>
State University of New York at New Paltz<br/>
chauvetp@newpaltz.edu<br/>

Who am I?  Well, I'm currently the Information Security Officer in Information Technology Services at SUNY New Paltz, where I've worked since 2003.  Since 2019, I've also been teaching Cybersecurity as an adjunct in the Computer Science department here.

I've been at New Paltz a long time... I graduated in 2001 with a B.S. in Computer Engineering, and went to work in NYC for a couple years before returning back to New Paltz as an employee in late 2003.  While working at the college, I received my MBA in 2011.  I've been working full time in Information Security at the college since 2014.

When not at work - you may see me at one of the beautiful hiking areas in the Hudson Valley.

I'd like to thank all those who contributed to this - whether via their public documentation, forum posts on the Apereo CAS forums, or directly via email.  This includes David Curry of [The New School](https://newschool.edu), David Warden and Shawn Plummer of [SUNY Geneseo](https://geneseo.edu), Ken Runyon of [SUNY System Administration](https://suny.edu), Matt Adkins of [Liberty University](https://liberty.edu), David Campman of [Forsyte IT](https://forsyteit.com), and all the developers who have contributed to the [Apereo CAS](https://www.apereo.org/projects/cas) project and who contribute in the [CAS Community](https://apereo.github.io/cas/Mailing-Lists.html#cas-community-list-cas-userapereoorg).

The organization (and not a small amount of the content, especially the base Tomcat configuration guidelines) is straight from David Curry's [Deploying Apereo CAS 5](https://dacurry-tns.github.io/deploying-apereo-cas/) site - so special thanks go to him.  I used his documentation as a starting point when we first moved from CAS 4.x to 5.x a few years ago.  Part of the reason I am creating this document is so that others can (hopefully!) get as much benefit from this document for CAS 6 as I did with his for CAS 5.
